Now to validate what the user entered.
I of course want to do something on every keystroke.
Now we already got on changed text here as a listener on the title for example.
And what we do right now is we set the title in our state.
Now the next step is to not just do that.
So to not just save the input but to also validated and also kind of manage the validity of this input
in a state.
So therefore I'll add a new function here title change handler for example which gets the entered text
and then can do something and I'll just outsourced is into a separate named function to have a bit of
a cleaner easier to follow along code because now I will bind this listener here to my on changed text
event so that this function virus where every keystroke and dear of course I will still set my title
with the text.
But now in addition as I said I also want to manage de validity.
And for Dad we can add no state which you want to manage.
So maybe here after managing the title value we can always have the title is valid state or whatever
you want to call it and add set title is valid here as a setter function.
And then this state here initially could be false.
So did we initially treat this as not valid now for every keystroke here and the title change handler
before we may be stored as an update our title state we can validate this of course.
And now it's totally up to you how you want to validate this.
Now for example you could say this is only valid if you have a text which is not empty so if text length
with greater than 0 text is a string of course.
So if the length is zero then this means that it's an empty string.
We can also call text dot trim to trim excess whitespace so that just a bunch of whitespace also isn't
treated as valid.
Of course you could also add min or max length validation by checking the length here.
You could add regular expression validation to check the text for certain patterns.
It's actually something we'll do later as well.
But to get started I'll just check it like this.
And now here if we're greater than zero we're fine.
But actually if we are having a length of zero we're not fine.
So here I want to set.
Title is valid to False else.
We set set.
Title is valid to true of course.
So if we do have a valid input and we'll always set the title itself we always need to store Dad.
We must never lose that user input.
Otherwise we break the app.
And now with the title validity stored in a state we can use it of course here in our J as X code to
check if the title is not valid for example and if that's the case we can dynamically output a text
here where we for example say Please enter a valid title to show a little error message here which of
course all the code assigns I'm styling too.
With that you see that if we go to our input here we see that the error message right from the start
because we start an invalid state and if we start typing this disappears.
But if I remove all input it reappears and this is some basic validation you could add to show a little
error message or a little hint to your user to make sure that the users get at least an idea of which
kind of input you want.
Now of course you can then not just use this validity to output error messages but also to a wide that
your form gets submitted if it's invalid.
So here in the submit handler where I do always submit my data and create or update a product no matter
if the input is valid there we can use the validity data we gathered.
And for example check if title is valid and if it is not valid.
Hence the exclamation mark.
Then we just return.
Which means we cancel the function execution and the code thereafter won't run.
And in addition we might not just want to return.
Of course we can also import alert from React Native and throw a nice native alert here so we can simply
show alert with a message of wrong input and or a title off that and a message of please check the errors
in the form and then simply add one button there where we say okay because there's nothing else to do
then to confirm.
Well with that we have a nice flow here where we warn the user that the input is invalid.
So for example now if I tried to submit this input with my invalid Title I get this error.
And only if I enter a valid title I can submit it because I haven't added validation for the other inputs
yet which we of course should.
So this is how easy you can get started with validation.
Now since you used javascript here you can of course also bring in our third party validation libraries
like for example validate J.S. which is a package you can install into your project and start using
it to then easily validate strings for certain patterns if you wanted to do that in this module.
All right.
The basic patterns we use manually so did you get a clear understanding of what's really happening there
but you can absolutely bring in such third party libraries as well.
Well and now with that basic understanding about validation and so on.
Let's make sure that we now actually also move towards form an input management that is more scalable
and doesn't involve tons of states which we have to manage manually.